So let's dive into web push notifications, an extremely powerful feature we can add to progressive web
apps to really turn them into native application-like experiences,
why would we want to use push notifications?
Well there are multiple reasons, here are some of the most important ones.
For one, if we use push notifications, we can inform users even if they have our web app,
so the tab or the whole browser closed, especially on Chrome for Android, this is the case. There a service
process, a background process of the Chrome browser will keep on running in the background even if the
application is closed and we'll use our service worker to receive incoming push notifications, to alert
the user even if he's currently not doing anything or if the phone is in the pocket.
This of course is huge because it allows us to communicate with the user even if he's not using our
web app
and that of course drives user engagement.
This is another core feature of push notifications, giving us the possibility to reach out to users even
if they're not actively using our application gives us a chance of bringing them back to our application.
That's one major advantage native applications built for Android or iOS had in the past,
now we can leverage this in our web applications too.
Additionally, it simply is a more mobile app-like experience we're delivering.
If people are using an application and be that a web application which they can install on their home
screen, they are used to getting push notifications,
they are used to getting informed about updates in our app and we definitely want to deliver this experience
to them especially since we also as a developer have significant advantages due to the first points
mentioned here on the slide.